README.md, before:

# Dangerous Asteroids Radar Tracking (D.A.R.T.)

An optimized asteroid defense


## Features
Are you also sick of wasting ammunition on asteroids that fly safely past your platforms? 

Then D.A.R.T. might be the solution for you. It continuously monitors the space around your platforms, controls the 
connected ammo turrets, and prioritizes the approaching asteroids. Those that are heading directly toward your platforms
and are likely to collide with them are attacked, while the others are ignored, saving you tons of ammunition.

## Components
D.A.R.T. consist of two special devices. The central fire control computer (FCC) and a specialized variant of radar -
miniaturized with reduced power consumption and only usable on platforms. To use them, you have to research the D.A.R.T. 
technology.

![D.A.R.T. technology](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-technology.png?raw=true)

As of V 1.2.0 you can increase the maximum detection range of your dart-radars by resarching additional technologies

## Usage
To protect a platform with D.A.R.T., you have to build a FCC and at least one dart-radar (exact number depends on size and 
shape of your platform to cover it complete) additionally to your turrets. Communication between FCC and dart-radars uses a top secret military 
technique, called Light Ubiquity Architecture 😉 and needs no further interaction by you. As soon as FCC and dart-radars 
are placed on a platform the connection between them will be established. 

To control ammo turrets with D.A.R.T., you have to connect them with red or green wire with the FCC.

![D.A.R.T. on a platform](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-on-platform.png?raw=true)

## Configuration of D.A.R.T.
### Manually
Configuration can be done by simply opening the FCC 

![configure FCC](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main.png?raw=true)

All (= all on platform) dart-radars and ammo-turrets are accessible through this. Unconnected ammo-turrets or turrets 
with ambiguous circuit network conditions will be shown with according warnings.


To use D.A.R.T., it must be configured (per platform). This has to be done in these steps (not necessarily in this order)

- set the size of the defended area (recommended). The defended area consist of (overlapping) circles with the dart-radars as center 

![configure radar](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-radar.png?raw=true)

- set the detection range too (optional)

- set the circuit network conditions in all connected ammo turrets by switching to the "turrets"-tab 

![show turrets](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-turrets.png?raw=true)

  and clicking on the turret to be configured (**mandatory**)

![configure turret](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/gun-turret.png?raw=true|height=300)

**Hint**
D.A.R.T. controls a turret by setting its circuit network condition to 0 resp. 1.

### Automatically (new in 1.1)

Version 1.1 introduces an automatic configuration of the turrets, that should make this process much easier. Turrets 
connected to a FCC which are unconfigured or not properly configured and show according warnings can be made operable
by simply pressing the "automatic turret configuration" button.

![show turrets](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-turrets-automatically.png?raw=true)

**Hint**
Warnings triggered by an erroneous wiring - for example wiring the same turret with both green and red wire to a FCC -
are not covered and must be solved by correcting the wiring.

## Monitoring the ammunition stock (since 1.1)

D.A.R.T. has the ability to monitor the ammunition stock of a platform (located in the hub) and issues warnings as soon 
as it falls below a configurable threshold. The thresholds are configurable per platform and ammo-type possibly used by 
the turrets connected to the FCC. If you don't use a particular ammo-type you can disable the warnings for this type.

![configure thresholds](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-ammos.png?raw=true)

## Adjusting control of the turrets (new in 1.2)

If you want you may enable a finer adjustment of the behavior of the FCCs in the startup settings of the mod.

If enabled you have the choice between three modes how a FCC deals with the control of the turrets:

![adjust mode](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-adjust-mode.png?raw=true)

- never

  In this mode for all turrets connected to this FCC control over these turrets is released, i.e. they are permanently enabled 
  and handle all attacks on their own (not recommended 😉)
- automatic

  In this mode the FCC releases control over a turret, if the number of asteroids that are in range of the turret and 
  on collision course exceeds the threshold 
- always

  Normal operational mode - all turrets are under full control of the FCC (same as disabling adjustment in startup settings)

## Compatibility
This mod is compatible to vanilla game (= space age) and other mods introducing new turrets derived from 
ammo-turret prototype and/or new ammunition for these turrets.

**IMPORTANT**: For working correctly with D.A.R.T., mods introducing new turrets need connectivity to the circuit network
(i.e. the turrets must be connectible with red or green wire). This can be achieved by the other mod itself or require 
some additional (specifically adapted for each mod) support by this mod (introduced in v 1.0.15).

Currently these mods are known to work fine with it:
- [Cannon Turret](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/vtk-cannon-turret) [^2]
- [Cupric Asteroids](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/cupric-asteroids) [^1] 
- [Focused gun turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/snouz_long_electric_gun_turret) [^1]
- [Modular Turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/scattergun_turret) [^1]
- [Rampant Arsenal (Fork)](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/RampantArsenalFork) [^2]
- [Schall Ammo Turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/SchallAmmoTurrets) [^1][^3]

If you have experience with other mods working too, please let me know. If you're missing another mod without an own 
connectivity to the circuit network and want to use it together with D.A.R.T., let me know too - I will have a look at it.

## Supported languages in this version:
  - čeština (cs)
  - deutsch (de)
  - ελληνικά (el)
  - english (en)
  - español (es-ES)
  - suomi (fi)
  - français (fr)
  - magyar (hu)
  - italiano (it)
  - 日本語 (ja)
  - 한국인 (ko)
  - nederlands (nl)
  - norsk (no)
  - polski (pl)
  - português (pt-BR)
  - русский (ru)
  - senska (sv-SE)
  - türkçe (tr)
  - українська (uk-UA)    
  - 中国人 (zh-CN)
  - 中國人 (zh-TW)

Mostly translated with google or AI - may contain wrong translations or such sounding strange/funny for native speakers.

Contributions adding new language localizations or corrections welcomed (please open a suitable PR)

# Have fun

----
[^1]: runs out of the box

[^2]: needs support by D.A.R.T. for adding the connectivity to the circuit network

[^3]: due to an incompatibility of Schall Ammo Turrets with versions of factorio > 2.0.32 you also need 
[Schall Suite Patches](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/schall-suite-fix)

Commit message:

update README with additional examples, corrections, and prioritization details

README.md, after:

# Dangerous Asteroids Radar Tracking (D.A.R.T.)

An optimized asteroid defense


## Features
Are you also sick of wasting ammunition on asteroids that fly safely past your platforms? 

Then D.A.R.T. might be the solution for you. It continuously monitors the space around your platforms, controls the 
connected ammo turrets, and prioritizes the approaching asteroids. Those that are heading directly toward your platforms
and are likely to collide with them are attacked, while the others are ignored, saving you tons of ammunition.

### D.A.R.T. in action
A small comparison should show you the difference:

- The 1st [video](https://youtu.be/hZGajh5M93g) shows a flight to fulgora with disabled D.A.R.T. (thus simulating a vanilla flight)
- The 2nd [video](https://youtu.be/AKpU_mEaESk) shows the same flight with fully operating D.A.R.T.

Both videos were created with the same save file as starting point.

## Components
D.A.R.T. consist of two special devices. The central fire control computer (FCC) and a specialized variant of radar -
miniaturized with reduced power consumption and only usable on platforms. To use them, you have to research the D.A.R.T. 
technology.

![D.A.R.T. technology](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-technology.png?raw=true)

As of V 1.2.0 you can increase the maximum detection range of your dart-radars by researching additional technologies

## Usage
To protect a platform with D.A.R.T., you have to build a FCC and at least one dart-radar (exact number depends on size and 
shape of your platform to cover it complete) additionally to your turrets. Communication between FCC and dart-radars uses a top secret military 
technique, called Light Ubiquity Architecture 😉 and needs no further interaction by you. As soon as FCC and dart-radars 
are placed on a platform the connection between them will be established. 

To control ammo turrets with D.A.R.T., you have to connect them with red or green wire with the FCC.

![D.A.R.T. on a platform](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-on-platform.png?raw=true)

## Configuration of D.A.R.T.
### Manually
Configuration can be done by simply opening the FCC 

![configure FCC](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main.png?raw=true)

All (= all on platform) dart-radars and ammo-turrets are accessible through this. Unconnected ammo-turrets or turrets 
with ambiguous circuit network conditions will be shown with according warnings.


To use D.A.R.T., it must be configured (per platform). This has to be done in these steps (not necessarily in this order)

- set the size of the defended area (recommended). The defended area consist of (overlapping) circles with the dart-radars as center 

![configure radar](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-radar.png?raw=true)

- set the detection range too (optional)

- set the circuit network conditions in all connected ammo turrets by switching to the "turrets"-tab 

![show turrets](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-turrets.png?raw=true)

  and clicking on the turret to be configured (**mandatory**)

![configure turret](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/gun-turret.png?raw=true|height=300)

**Hint**
D.A.R.T. controls a turret by setting its circuit network condition to 0 resp. 1.

### Automatically (since 1.1)

Version 1.1 introduces an automatic configuration of the turrets, that should make this process much easier. Turrets 
connected to a FCC which are unconfigured or not properly configured and show according warnings can be made operable
by simply pressing the "automatic turret configuration" button.

![show turrets](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-turrets-automatically.png?raw=true)

**Hint**
Warnings triggered by an erroneous wiring - for example wiring the same turret with both green and red wire to a FCC -
are not covered and must be solved by correcting the wiring.

## Monitoring the ammunition stock (since 1.1)

D.A.R.T. has the ability to monitor the ammunition stock of a platform (located in the hub) and issues warnings as soon 
as it falls below a configurable threshold. The thresholds are configurable per platform and ammo-type possibly used by 
the turrets connected to the FCC. If you don't use a particular ammo-type you can disable the warnings for this type.

![configure thresholds](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-ammos.png?raw=true)

## Adjusting control of the turrets (new in 1.2)

If you want you may enable a finer adjustment of the behavior of the FCCs in the startup settings of the mod.

If enabled you have the choice between three modes how a FCC deals with the control of the turrets:

![adjust mode](https://github.com/xyzzycgn/dart/blob/main/doc/dart-configure-main-adjust-mode.png?raw=true)

- never

  In this mode for all turrets connected to this FCC control over these turrets is released, i.e. they are permanently enabled 
  and handle all attacks on their own (not recommended 😉)

- automatic

  In this mode the FCC releases control over a turret, if the number of asteroids that are in range of the turret and 
  on collision course exceeds the threshold 

- always

  Normal operational mode - all turrets are under full control of the FCC (same as disabling adjustment in startup settings)

## Prioritizing
D.A.R.T. recognizes priority targets set in a turret, i.e. a turret under control of the FCC will only attack harmful 
asteroids fitting the list - all others will be ignored by the turret.

## Compatibility
This mod is compatible to vanilla game (= space age) and other mods introducing new turrets derived from 
ammo-turret prototype and/or new ammunition for these turrets.

**IMPORTANT**: For working correctly with D.A.R.T., mods introducing new turrets need connectivity to the circuit network
(i.e. the turrets must be connectible with red or green wire). This can be achieved by the other mod itself or require 
some additional (specifically adapted for each mod) support by this mod (introduced in v 1.0.15).

Currently these mods are known to work fine with it:
- [Cannon Turret](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/vtk-cannon-turret) [^2]
- [Cupric Asteroids](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/cupric-asteroids) [^1] 
- [Focused gun turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/snouz_long_electric_gun_turret) [^1]
- [Modular Turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/scattergun_turret) [^1]
- [Rampant Arsenal (Fork)](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/RampantArsenalFork) [^2]
- [Schall Ammo Turrets](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/SchallAmmoTurrets) [^1][^3]

If you have experience with other mods working too, please let me know. If you're missing another mod without an own 
connectivity to the circuit network and want to use it together with D.A.R.T., let me know too - I will have a look at it.

## Supported languages in this version:
  - čeština (cs)
  - deutsch (de)
  - ελληνικά (el)
  - english (en)
  - español (es-ES)
  - suomi (fi)
  - français (fr)
  - magyar (hu)
  - italiano (it)
  - 日本語 (ja)
  - 한국인 (ko)
  - nederlands (nl)
  - norsk (no)
  - polski (pl)
  - português (pt-BR)
  - русский (ru)
  - senska (sv-SE)
  - türkçe (tr)
  - українська (uk-UA)    
  - 中国人 (zh-CN)
  - 中國人 (zh-TW)

Mostly translated with google or AI - may contain wrong translations or such sounding strange/funny for native speakers.

Contributions adding new language localizations or corrections welcomed (please open a suitable PR)

# Have fun

----
[^1]: runs out of the box

[^2]: needs support by D.A.R.T. for adding the connectivity to the circuit network

[^3]: due to an incompatibility of Schall Ammo Turrets with versions of factorio > 2.0.32 you also need 
[Schall Suite Patches](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/schall-suite-fix)
